# IoT <!-- omit in toc -->

## Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [IoT](#iot)
  - [Applications](#applications)
    - [Consumer applications](#consumer-applications)
    - [Medical and healthcare](#medical-and-healthcare)
    - [Transportation](#transportation)
    - [V2X communications](#v2x-communications)
    - [Building and home automation](#building-and-home-automation)
    - [Manufacturing](#manufacturing)
    - [Agriculture](#agriculture)
    - [Maritime](#maritime)
    - [Metropolitan scale deployments](#metropolitan-scale-deployments)
    - [Energy management](#energy-management)
    - [Environmental monitoring](#environmental-monitoring)
    - [Military applications](#military-applications)
    - [Ocean of Things](#ocean-of-things)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
  - [Messaging Protocols](#messaging-protocols)
    - [AMQP](#amqp)
    - [MQTT](#mqtt)
- [References](#references)

## IoT

The Internet of Things (IoT) describes physical objects (or groups of such objects) with sensors, processing ability, software, and other technologies that connect and exchange data with other devices and systems over the Internet or other communications networks.
Internet of things has been considered a misnomer because devices do not need to be connected to the public internet, they only need to be connected to a network and be individually addressable.

The field has evolved due to the convergence of multiple technologies, including ubiquitous computing, commodity sensors, increasingly powerful embedded systems, and machine learning.
Traditional fields of embedded systems, wireless sensor networks, control systems, automation (including home and building automation), independently and collectively enable the Internet of things.
In the consumer market, IoT technology is most synonymous with products pertaining to the concept of the "smart home", including devices and appliances (such as lighting fixtures, thermostats, home security systems, cameras, and other home appliances) that support one or more common ecosystems, and can be controlled via devices associated with that ecosystem, such as smartphones and smart speakers.
IoT is also used in healthcare systems.

### Applications

#### Consumer applications

A growing portion of IoT devices are created for consumer use, including connected vehicles, home automation, wearable technology, connected health, and appliances with remote monitoring capabilities.

#### Medical and healthcare

The Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) is an application of the IoT for medical and health related purposes, data collection and analysis for research, and monitoring.
The IoMT has been referenced as "Smart Healthcare", as the technology for creating a digitized healthcare system, connecting available medical resources and healthcare services.

#### Transportation

The IoT can assist in the integration of communications, control, and information processing across various transportation systems.
Application of the IoT extends to all aspects of transportation systems (i.e.
the vehicle, the infrastructure, and the driver or user).
Dynamic interaction between these components of a transport system enables inter- and intra-vehicular communication, smart traffic control, smart parking, electronic toll collection systems, logistics and fleet management, vehicle control, safety, and road assistance.

#### V2X communications

In vehicular communication systems, vehicle-to-everything communication (V2X), consists of three main components: vehicle to vehicle communication (V2V), vehicle to infrastructure communication (V2I) and vehicle to pedestrian communications (V2P).

#### Building and home automation

IoT devices can be used to monitor and control the mechanical, electrical and electronic systems used in various types of buildings (e.g., public and private, industrial, institutions, or residential) in home automation and building automation systems.
In this context, three main areas are being covered in literature:

- The integration of the Internet with building energy management systems in order to create energy-efficient and IOT-driven "smart buildings".
- The possible means of real-time monitoring for reducing energy consumption and monitoring occupant behaviors.
- The integration of smart devices in the built environment and how they might be used in future applications.

#### Manufacturing

The IoT can connect various manufacturing devices equipped with sensing, identification, processing, communication, actuation, and networking capabilities.
Network control and management of manufacturing equipment, asset and situation management, or manufacturing process control allow IoT to be used for industrial applications and smart manufacturing.
IoT intelligent systems enable rapid manufacturing and optimization of new products, and rapid response to product demands.

#### Agriculture

There are numerous IoT applications in farming such as collecting data on temperature, rainfall, humidity, wind speed, pest infestation, and soil content.
This data can be used to automate farming techniques, take informed decisions to improve quality and quantity, minimize risk and waste, and reduce the effort required to manage crops.
For example, farmers can now monitor soil temperature and moisture from afar, and even apply IoT-acquired data to precision fertilization programs.
The overall goal is that data from sensors, coupled with the farmer's knowledge and intuition about his or her farm, can help increase farm productivity, and also help reduce costs.

#### Maritime

IoT devices are in use monitoring the environments and systems of boats and yachts.
Many pleasure boats are left unattended for days in summer, and months in winter so such devices provide valuable early alerts of boat flooding, fire, and deep discharge of batteries.

#### Metropolitan scale deployments

There are several planned or ongoing large-scale deployments of the IoT, to enable better management of cities and systems.
For example, Songdo (South Korea),Santander (Spain), San Jose (California), Singapore, and much more.

#### Energy management

Significant numbers of energy-consuming devices (e.g. lamps, household appliances, motors, pumps, etc.) already integrate Internet connectivity, which can allow them to communicate with utilities not only to balance power generation but also helps optimize the energy consumption as a whole.
These devices allow for remote control by users, or central management via a cloud-based interface, and enable functions like scheduling (e.g., remotely powering on or off heating systems, controlling ovens, changing lighting conditions etc.).
The smart grid is a utility-side IoT application; systems gather and act on energy and power-related information to improve the efficiency of the production and distribution of electricity.
Using advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) Internet-connected devices, electric utilities not only collect data from end-users, but also manage distribution automation devices like transformers.

#### Environmental monitoring

Environmental monitoring applications of the IoT typically use sensors to assist in environmental protection by monitoring air or water quality, atmospheric or soil conditions, and can even include areas like monitoring the movements of wildlife and their habitats.
Development of resource-constrained devices connected to the Internet also means that other applications like earthquake or tsunami early-warning systems can also be used by emergency services to provide more effective aid.
IoT devices in this application typically span a large geographic area and can also be mobile.
It has been argued that the standardization that IoT brings to wireless sensing will revolutionize this area.

#### Military applications

The Internet of Military Things (IoMT) is the application of IoT technologies in the military domain for the purposes of reconnaissance, surveillance, and other combat-related objectives.
It is heavily influenced by the future prospects of warfare in an urban environment and involves the use of sensors, munitions, vehicles, robots, human-wearable biometrics, and other smart technology that is relevant on the battlefield.

#### Ocean of Things

The Ocean of Things project is a DARPA-led program designed to establish an Internet of things across large ocean areas for the purposes of collecting, monitoring, and analyzing environmental and vessel activity data.
The project entails the deployment of about 50,000 floats that house a passive sensor suite that autonomously detect and track military and commercial vessels as part of a cloud-based network.

### Architecture

IoT system architecture, in its simplistic view, consists of three tiers: Tier 1: Devices, Tier 2: the Edge Gateway, and Tier 3: the Cloud.

**Devices** include networked things, such as the sensors and actuators found in IoT equipment, particularly those that use protocols such as Modbus, Bluetooth, Zigbee, or proprietary protocols, to connect to an Edge Gateway.

The **Edge Gateway** layer consists of sensor data aggregation systems called Edge Gateways that provide functionality, such as pre-processing of the data, securing connectivity to cloud, using systems such as WebSockets, the event hub, and, even in some cases, edge analytics or fog computing.
Edge Gateway layer is also required to give a common view of the devices to the upper layers to facilitate in easier management.

The final tier includes the **cloud** application built for IoT using the microservices architecture, which are usually polyglot and inherently secure in nature using HTTPS/OAuth.
It includes various database systems that store sensor data, such as time series databases or asset stores using backend data storage systems.
The cloud tier in most cloud-based IoT system features event queuing and messaging system that handles communication that transpires in all tiers.
Some experts classified the three-tiers in the IoT system as edge, platform, and enterprise and these are connected by proximity network, access network, and service network, respectively.

### Messaging Protocols

#### AMQP

The Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP) is an open standard application layer protocol for message-oriented middleware.
The defining features of AMQP are message orientation, queuing, routing (including point-to-point and publish-and-subscribe), reliability and security.

AMQP is a binary, application layer protocol, designed to efficiently support a wide variety of messaging applications and communication patterns.
It provides flow controlled, message-oriented communication with message-delivery guarantees such as at-most-once (where each message is delivered once or never), at-least-once (where each message is certain to be delivered, but may do so multiple times) and exactly-once (where the message will always certainly arrive and do so only once), and authentication and/or encryption based on SASL and/or TLS.
It assumes an underlying reliable transport layer protocol such as Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).

#### MQTT

MQTT is an OASIS standard messaging protocol for the Internet of Things (IoT).
It is designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport that is ideal for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth.
MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas, etc.

## References

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_Military_Things
- https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/internet-of-things-iot/what-is-the-internet-of-things/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol
- https://mqtt.org/
